---
cover: /articles/Palestine-Israel-Conlict-result.webp
author:
  name: Cubapoesia
  avatarUrl: https://scontent-lga3-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t39.30808-1/221855325_213580464104114_5310972818283898707_n.jpg?stp=c0.0.200.200a_dst-jpg&_nc_cat=106&ccb=1-7&_nc_sid=596444&_nc_ohc=8FlejUThMvEAX-eEmuN&_nc_ht=scontent-lga3-1.xx&oh=00_AfBPfBHgHnHsJyrsBqBLhjZ4pNOCteLzrhM11_z0ZEHuyg&oe=659A2AF8
  link: https://facebook.com/Cubapoesia.fiph
date: 2024-01-02
badges: [{
  color: 'white',
  bg: 'rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.3)',
  content: 'Calls'
}]
layout: article
---

# WORD OF THE WORLD FROM HAVANA TO PALESTINE
[Ver versión en Español](declaracion-habana-palestina)

## I.

In the Holy Land, not only the existence of a people is at stake at the hands of barbarism, or the principles that govern coexistence and relationships between human beings, but the very foundations of the human spirit, treasured by civilization for centuries. 
The acceptance of unlimited violence, cruelty and absolute coldness in the face of the death of our fellow human beings, without a shock, without the pulse of reason or the sensitivity of the world trembling for even a moment - prey to impotence and terror--, speak only of the decline of our species as a paradigm in the face of blind nature and the shadowy forces of animal instinct. 

Such the desolate landscape of our time.

In truth, the poet was right, we live in dark times, Bertold Brecht, immersed in the most excessive violence and greed, war and injustice assumed as something fatal, inexorable, assumed from indifference and forgetfulness, in the midst of a planetary program of market seduction, riddled by the mass media that proposes its democracy as the best of all possible worlds, which the well-designed marketing of evil and greed exhibits as the only destiny for the human race.

But even so, in this devastating panorama, we must not give up being heard, we must not give up touching the most remote fiber of human conscience, to summon the moral reserves of civilization. 

We must not remain silent in the face of what the powers of capital propose to us from blindness, anger and arrogance. We must speak out loud, bear witness to our rejection of his designs. The human species must live in peace. 
Conquer science and cultivate harmony, sponsor education and culture, exalt the dignity of men and women, work and fight for the preservation of life on earth.        

## II.

Thinking in this way, we call the Word of the World International Poetry Festival in Havana, in the context of the 32nd Havana International Book Fair, which will take place from February 15 to 25, 2024. We invite all poets who are willing to raise their voices for world peace and in solidarity with the people of Palestine, under occupation for decades, now brutally attacked by the Zionist state of Israel.

The event is in Havana from February 17 to 24. 
With poetry readings and our most energetic demonstration of solidarity, we will be next to those who suffer aggression, humiliation and death, in a genocidal action of ethnic cleansing and extermination of an entire people.



## III.

Poems can be sent in video, audio and as Word texts, to be screened and read publicly at the Word of the World Poetry Festival of the Havana International Book Fair. 
The addresses enabled to receive the materials, until January 28, 2024, will be: [http://u.pc.cd/UhyctalK](http://u.pc.cd/UhyctalK), [alpausanias@gmail.com](mailto:alpausanias@gmail.com), [karelalexei@gmail.com](mailto:karelalexei@gmail.com) also to WhatsApp [+5353321640](tel://+5353321640) and [+5353321640](tel://+5355599142). 

At the end of this poetic action, the texts and audiovisuals will be delivered to the Palestinian poets present at the event, members of the Palestine Writers Union, the Palestinian Writers Union and the PEN Club of Palestine, along with the list of names that support this poetic action in tribute to the land of Mahmud Darwish.

Long live World Peace! 
Long live Free Palestine!

Organizing Committee of the 32nd Havana International Book Fair,
CubaPoesía Cultural Center, Havana, Cuba,

December 31, 2023.


## Send your poems
Send your files [using this link: http://u.pc.cd/UhyctalK](http://u.pc.cd/UhyctalK)